					The Old Man’s Daughter and the Old Woman’s Daughter


Once upon a time there was an old man and an old woman who lived in a house.
Each of them had a daughter. The old man’s daughter was friendly, hard working and
kind, while the old woman’s daughter was lazy, proud and unfriendly. One day, the
old woman ordered the old man’s daughter to leave the house. So the good girl left.
On her way, she met a dog that was sick and full of fleas. The dog said to her
“Please help me, and I will be of useful to you someday”. The girl nursed the dog,
then went on her way.
 Later, she met a fountain that was broken and dry. The fountain said to her
“Please help me and I will be of useful to you someday”. The girl fixed the fountain
and continued her journey.
 Soon, she met an oven of clay, broken and dry. “Please help me, said the oven,
and I will be useful to you someday”. She fixed the oven, mended its cracks then
continued her way.
 Then, she met a pear tree that was full of caterpillars and had many dry branches.
“Please help me, said the tree, and I will be useful to you someday” The girl cleaned
the tree and went on.
 She arrived at the house of Saint Sunday, who was a very wise old woman.
“Welcome, girl, said Saint Sunday. I must go away, but while I’m gone, please wash
my babies and feed them. And keep some food warm for me, when I come back”.
Saint Sunday went away. The girl called the babies from the forest, but the babies
were strange animals, some bigger, some smaller. She was not afraid of the strange
animals, she washed them and fed them. When Saint Sunday returned, she found
good food waiting for her. “Girl, you have done a good job here, she said. Now go
upstairs in the attic. There are many boxes, some old, some new and shiny. Choose
a box as a reward for your work, whichever you think is right for you”. The girl went to
the attic and saw many boxes. She was not greedy, so she chose the smallest box,
made of wood. Then she said good bye to Saint Sunday and started to go back
home.
On her way, she arrived at the tree. The tree was full of big, yellow, juicy pears.
The tree bowed down and let her pick some pears. Then, the girl met the oven. The
oven was full of fresh cookies. She ate some cookies, then went on. She met the
fountain, that was full of clear water and had two silver glasses on the edge. She
drank some water and took the glasses with her. Then she met the dog, who had a
necklace of gold. “Take the necklace, said the dog, as a thank you for your help”.
She took the necklace, then went on and arrived home. She called her father and
they opened the wooden box. From the little box appeared many cows, horses,
chicken, pigs, orchards and crops, that filled the garden. “We are rich now”, said the
old man, very happy.
 The old woman and her lazy daughter were very envious. “I’ll go too, said the lazy
daughter, I will bring even more riches”. So off she went. She met the dog who asked
for her help, but she refused. “Did you have many servants before?” she yelled at the
dog and went on. She met the fountain that was broken and dry. The fountain asked
her for help, but she replied: “How can I dirty my hands with you?”. She went on and
met the oven. The oven asked for help, but she refused in the same way. After that,
she met the tree that asked for help too, but she refused again.
And she arrived at the house of Saint Sunday. “Girl, please feed and wash my
children while I am away. And keep some food for me too when I return”, said Saint
Sunday. The lazy girl called the children and the strange animals appeared. “What
sort of creatures are these?” she said very disgusted. And she boiled water to wash
them, but she burned them with hot water. Then she burned the food too and let it
get cold. When Saint Sunday returned and saw the disaster, she remained calm.
“Girl, go to the attic and choose one box that you think you deserve for your work”,
she said. The lazy girl went upstairs and chose the biggest box, golden and shiny.
Then she ran off, without saying a word to Saint Sunday.
 She arrived at the tree. The tree was full of big, yellow juicy pears, but when she
wanted to pick one, the tree became so tall, she could not reach it. She went on and
arrived at the oven. The oven was full of warm cookies, but when she wanted to eat,
the oven burned her hands. She had to go on hungry. She saw the fountain that was
full of clear water and had two silver glasses. She wanted to drink, but the glasses
and the water disappeared. She went on thirsty. She met the dog who had a golden
necklace. She wanted to take the necklace, but the dog barked and bit her. She
arrived home and called the old woman.
They opened the shiny big box, but from inside appeared huge monsters that ate
them both and then disappeared with the box. The old man and the good daughter
remained to live their peaceful lives after that. The good daughter found a good man
and got married. And they lived happily ever after.
